Alerting/Docs: Silence documentation (#35052)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/unified-alerting/silences.md

+++
title = "Silence alert notifications"
description = "Silence alert notifications"
keywords = ["grafana", "alerting", "silence", "mute"]
weight = 400
+++

# Silence alert notifications

Grafana allows to you to prevent notifications from one or more alert rules by creating a silence. This silence lasts for a specified window of time.

> Silences do not prevent alert rules from being run. They also do not stop alert instances being shown in the user interface. Silences only prevent notifications from being created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Silences do not prevent alert rules from being evaluated. They also do not stop alert instances being shown in the user interface. Silences only prevent notifications from being created.
```

## Add a silence

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To add a silence:

```

> 1. In the Grafana menu hover your cursor over the **Alerting** (bell) icon and select **Silences** (crossed out bell icon).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Grafana menu, hover your cursor over the **Alerting** (bell) icon and then select **Silences** (crossed out bell icon).
```

1. Click the **New Silence** button.

> 1. Select the start and end date for the **Silence start and end** to indicate when the silence should go into effect and expire.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the start and end date in **Silence start and end** to indicate when the silence should go into effect and expire.
```

> 1. Optionally, update the **Duration**, this will alter the time for the end of silence in the previous step to correspond to the start plus the duration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Optionally, update the **Duration** to alter the time for the end of silence in the previous step to correspond to the start plus the duration.
```

1. Enter one or more *Matching Labels* by filling out the **Name** and **Value** fields. Matchers determine which rules the silence will apply to.
1. Enter a **Comment**.
1. Enter the name of the owner in **Creator**.
1. Click **Create**.

## How label matching works

Alert instances that have labels that match all of the "Matching Labels" specified in the silence will have their notifications suppressed.

- The **Label** field is the name of the label to match. It must exactly match the label name.
- The **Value** field matches against the corresponding value for the specified **Label** name. How it matches depends on the **Regex** and **Equal** checkboxes.
- The **Regex** checkbox specifies if the inputted **Value** should be matched against labels as a regular expression. The regular expression is always anchored. If not selected it is an exact string match.

> - The **Equal** checkbox specifies if the match should include alert instances that match or do not match. If not checked, the silence will include alert instances _do not_ match.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The **Equal** checkbox specifies if the match should include alert instances that match or do not match. If not checked, the silence includes alert instances _do not_ match.
```

> 

Reviewer: Do you think it's worth adapting this explanation from Domas? 

These fields translate to matcher operators as follows:  not regex and not equal is !=,  regex and not equal is !~, not regex and equal is =, regex and equal is =~

## Viewing and editing silences

> 1. In the Grafana menu hover your cursor over the **Alerting** (bell) icon and select **Silences** (crossed out bell icon).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Grafana menu hover your cursor over the **Alerting** (bell) icon, then select **Silences** (crossed out bell icon).
```

> 1. To end the silence, click the **Unsilence** button next to the listed silence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To end the silence, click the **Unsilence** option next to the listed silence.
```

> 1. To edit a silence, click the pencil icon next to the listed silence. This will take you to the same view as creating a silence, but with the form filed out. Here the fields can be changed and then press the **Submit** button to change it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To edit a silence, click the pencil icon next to the listed silence. Edit the silence using instructions on how to create a silence.
1. Click **Submit** to save your changes.
```
